this is the amount of crisp that a very
greedy person might eat a long movie
easily see this yeah I mean we've all
we've all done that okay so now we have
the lovely liquid oxygen and see they're
ready Oh
stand back a little bit
Oh
I'm not going to eat crisps for the rest
of the day you know maybe not even
tomorrow no I'll be right back to this
house spectacular we've completely
melted
an aluminium baking tray even as a
scientist I am astounded at the energy
contained in just 400 calories and most
of us was at least 5 times that much
energy into our bodies every single day
but we obviously don't have rolling
fires burning in our bellies our body
has to release all that energy in a very
different way
to show you how I've come back to
medical school what we're about to see
is something truly fascinating but not
for the faint-hearted anatomist Claire
Smith is showing me a real human
digestive system
it's a vast alien-looking mass of tubes
and this is the stomach I guess I
thought it would be a really big bag if
I think of how much I feel like an stuff
into it so it is capable of stretching
so if you've eaten a large meal with a
couple of glasses of water it is able to
stretch okay it typically holds about
one liter okay and then from the stomach
you then have a region here where you're
then going into the small intestines and
all of these that you can see here this
is all small intestines this is where
the action happens as it were so this is
the small intestine and running along
here this is our special structure
called the Mason tree which delivers all
the arteries and the veins to the small
intestines so the arteries are bringing
nice fresh oxygen to the intestines and
the veins are taking our calories back
to be used around the rest of the body
the Me's entry I really like that if you
hold it up to the light enough you can
see the blood vessels despite its
extensive blood supply an enormous
length the gut still takes hours to
break food down into a form that it can
be burned by the rest of our body
there's on average about 6 meters of
small intestines 6 meters so so three of
me and a bit hold up in a way that
doesn't get tangled I guess kind of
amazed at how it all was always amazing
every time you look at different parts
of the anatomy and you understand it is
always fascinating
you